Static website hosting with S3 is one of AWS' oldest
solutions, launching shortly after S3 itself.
And while AWS has since released other services that provide
similar functionality, S3 static hosting still continues to be one
of the easiest to configure and work with.
Let's take a look at how it works.
First,
let's look at the difference between a website and
an S3 bucket. With an S3 bucket, you use keys to get back objects.
Every object must be referenced directly, and only that object is returned.
It's just like getting static assets.
A website is different because you can reference a path,
and some HTML will be returned to you.
You don't have to reference the file where the HTML is explicitly.
In many ways, that's what S3 static hosting is really providing.
It's letting you configure some static behavior to occur when a
directory is referenced in the URL. With S3 static hosting,
you configure what the name of your index file will be and
what the name of your error file will be.
The defaults are index.html and error.html.
Then you can place these files in any directory in your S3 bucket,
and they will be returned when that path is navigated to.
In addition,
S3 static website hosting gives you a unique URL to use to get to the site root.
There isn't too much complexity involved,
but it provides a simple solution when you need a simple site. In the next clip, we're going to get a static site set up using our existing S3 bucket.